What event led to the Kaiser's abdication in November 1918?
Who were the "November Criminals"?
What was Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles?
Name three punishments Germany faced under the Treaty of Versailles (LAMB).
What were the key strengths of the Weimar Constitution?
What was the main weakness of proportional representation?
What was Article 48?
What was the Spartacist Uprising and when did it occur?
Who were the Freikorps?
What was the Kapp Putsch and when did it occur?
Why did France and Belgium invade the Ruhr in 1923?
What was hyperinflation?
How were people with savings affected by hyperinflation?
How did Gustav Stresemann stabilise the German economy in 1923?
What was the Dawes Plan of 1924?
What was the Locarno Pact of 1925?
What was the League of Nations and when did Germany join?
What was the Kellogg-Briand Pact of 1928?
What were some features of the "Golden Age" (1924-1929) in Germany?
What underlying problems remained despite the "Golden Age"?
When did Hitler join the German Workers' Party (DAP)?
What was the DAP renamed in 1920?
What was the Nazis' "25-Point Programme"?
Who were the SA (Sturmabteilung)?
What was the Munich Putsch and when did it happen?
What happened to Hitler after the Munich Putsch?
What book did Hitler write in prison, outlining his ideology?
How did Hitler change Nazi strategy after the Munich Putsch?
What caused the Great Depression in 1929?
How did the Great Depression help the Nazis gain support?
How did the Nazis use propaganda effectively in elections?
How did the failure of Weimar politicians help the Nazis' rise?
Who was Chancellor Franz von Papen?
When was Hitler appointed Chancellor of Germany?
Why did Hindenburg agree to make Hitler Chancellor?
What was the Reichstag Fire?
What was the "Decree for the Protection of People and State"?
What was the Enabling Act of 1933?
How did Hitler remove opposition from trade unions?
How did Hitler deal with political parties?
What was the Night of the Long Knives (1934)?
What happened when President Hindenburg died in August 1934?
What was the SS (Schutzstaffel)?
Who was Heinrich Himmler?
What was the Gestapo?
How did the Nazis use concentration camps?
How did the Nazis control the legal system?
Who was Joseph Goebbels?
How did the Nazis use radio for propaganda?
What was the purpose of Nazi rallies and spectacles?
How did the Nazis control newspapers?
How was the Catholic Church treated by the Nazis?
What was the Confessional Church?
How did the Nazis use education to indoctrinate youth?
What was the Hitler Youth?
What was the League of German Maidens (BDM)?
What were the core Nazi beliefs about women?
How did the Nazis encourage women to have children?
What was the Nazi aim regarding unemployment?
How did rearmament help reduce unemployment?
What were the Autobahns?
What was the German Labour Front (DAF)?
What was the "Strength Through Joy" (Kraft durch Freude, KdF) programme?
What was the "Beauty of Labour" (Schönheit der Arbeit) programme?
How did the Nazis define an "Aryan"?
What was the boycott of Jewish shops and businesses in 1933?
What were the Nuremberg Laws of 1935?
What was Kristallnacht (Night of Broken Glass)?
How were Jews punished after Kristallnacht?
Which other groups did the Nazis persecute as "undesirables"?
What was the T4 Euthanasia Programme?
What was the purpose of the 1936 Berlin Olympics?
When did Germany invade Poland, starting WWII in Europe?
How did the war effort affect life for ordinary Germans?
How did the role of women change during the war?
What was the "Final Solution"?
What were ghettos?
What were Einsatzgruppen?
Name three Nazi extermination camps.
What forms of resistance existed in Germany during the Nazi era?
Who were the "White Rose" group?
Who were the "Edelweiss Pirates"?
What was the July Bomb Plot (1944)?
What happened to the plotters of the July Bomb Plot?
How did Allied bombing affect German morale?
What happened to Hitler in April 1945?
When did Germany formally surrender, ending the war in Europe?
Describe two problems affecting the Weimar Republic in 1919-1922.
Explain why the Nazis were able to reduce unemployment by 1939.
How did the Nazis use the SS to maintain control?
What was the main difference between the SA and SS?
Explain why hyperinflation made the Weimar government unpopular.
How did Stresemann's policies help Germany's international standing?
Why was the Wall Street Crash a disaster for the Weimar Republic?
How did Goebbels use censorship to control information?
What was the 'stab in the back' theory (Dolchstoßlegende)?
How did the Nazis use the legal system to enforce racial policy?
Describe one way the Nazis tried to control youth outside of school.
What were the 'three Ks' that summarised Nazi policy towards women?
Why did Hindenburg and von Papen think they could control Hitler?
